What comes to your mind when you hear the expression put away?
You may think of related expressions such as cast aside, dispose of, discard, get rid
of.
What did we have to put away to become a Christian?
The Bible in the book of Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 22 provides the answer.
That's Ephesians 4, 22.
You were taught to put away the old personality that conforms to your former course of conduct
and that is being corrupted according to its deceptive desires.
So we had to put away the old personality.
But it's one thing to put it away, it's something else to keep it away.
And that's why in the very next verse, verse 23, Paul encourages us to do this.
And you should continue to be made new in your dominant mental attitude.
That's so important to keep it away.
Because the old personality has traits that can become peace records.
This symposium will consider five peace records that we should put away and keep away.
Each talk will include the following main points.
Number one, it will define the peace record.
Number two, it will explain how it wrecks peace.
And number three, we will consider how to put it away.
What is the very first one we're going to talk about?
It is inappropriate boasting.
What is inappropriate boasting?
Basically, it's self-praise.
And the Bible condemns self-praise.
Notice Proverbs chapter 27 and verse 2.
Let someone else praise you, and not your own mouth, others, and not your own lips.
Self-praise is an evidence of pride, and that causes one to elevate himself above others.
Some might develop an unhealthy pride about their accomplishments,
even in the ministry.
It happened in the first century.
Paul had to write the Corinthian congregation about the dissensions that they were having,
the lack of peace they were experiencing.
Why?
Well, some of the congregation were popped up in pride about themselves or other men,
such as Paul, Apollo's, Seaface.
They were giving too much attention to themselves and to other men.
Well, how could that happen today?
Well, let's imagine a group of brothers talking, and one in the group says,
with Jehovah's help, and with diligent prayer and effort, I finally got a Bible study.
But right away, another one in the group proudly declares,
I have four Bible studies, two are attending meetings, and one will soon be baptized.
Could such a statement be a peace record?
How does inappropriate boasting wrecked peace?
Well, it's not wrong to take pleasure in our work and to thank Jehovah for the success that we may have.
But inappropriate boasting about our accomplishments can stir up competition, envy, and rivalry.
We must remember that self-promotion does not originate with our Heavenly Father, the God of Peace.
Where does it originate?
John 2.16 says,
The showy display of one's means of life does not originate with the Father,
but originates with the world.
And wouldn't you not agree that the world is filled with self-praise?
Even on their social media, we see this.
Some of the material that people post on the social media is designed to make the one appear very important.
And it is a showy display of their accomplishments, material possessions, or their expensive vacations that they enjoy.
In other words, it's all about look at me.
Well, we want to avoid getting caught up in the world's spirit of self-promotion that wrecks peace.
To illustrate just how devastating the peace record inappropriate boasting can be,
let's briefly consider the Bible character, Haman.
He was a proud and haughty man, and he boasted a lot.
Esther chapter 5 tells us that he was boasting with his family and friends about his wealth, his many sons,
how the king had promoted him to a high station.
He was above all the other servants, and that he'd had a special meal or banquet with the king and queen.
But Haman was hateful and arrogant.
And he was plotting to kill Jehovah's Faithful Servant Mardekai.
But his scheme and his attitudes were exposed and what happened.
The very stake that Haman had built to hang Mardekai on, he was hung on.
And it reminds us, doesn't it?
At Isaiah, chapter 29 and verse 20, the Bible says,
the bolster will come to his finish.
So because of the devastating effects that improper boasting can have on ourselves and others,
we do not even want to give the impression of boasting.
In the following dramatization, notice how a sister's action are misunderstood as boasting.
What's away from yourselves every kind of malicious bitterness, anger,
wrath, screaming, and abuse of speech, as well as everything injurious?
Did anyone start the day thinking,
I believe I'll show malicious bitterness to my brother today?
Of course not, and yet the potential is there, isn't it?
But genuine affection, faith, peace records,
and affection grows when we really know our brothers and sisters well.
We remember their joys and pain, their selfless zeal,
how they came to love Jehovah, and what they endure.
I'll get back it since I can.
Love you. Bye.
Oh, no.
I love you.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Oh, thank you.
Hello.
I love you.
Oh, thank you.
Yeah, thank you.
Thank you.
Oh, thank you.
Hello.
Hello, Hailey Darling.
I'm so, so sorry.
It's not too bad.
I got this.
How are you?
Thank you.
I'm so sorry.
Poor thing.
Let me clear it.
Poor thing. Let me clear this up. Hello everyone, Haley from Genoa Design here, helping you to be effortlessly elegant.
Can you believe how? Haley's business feed. When you look this good.
Was the sister in this video hosting inappropriately? No. She was a humble servant of Jehovah, kindly and patiently helping her elderly relative.
But do you recall her business website and the presentation she made about her jewelry products?
She said, when you look this good, you feel great.
Her Christian sister was upset and took those comments and her actions to be boastful.
Well, this video reminds us to think about how our words and our actions may appear to others.
So now we're going to get to the question, how do we put away inappropriate boasting?
A key point that we must always remember to help us to do just that is recorded in the book of 1 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse 7.
For who makes you different from another? Indeed, what do you have that you did not receive?
If in fact you did receive it, why do you boast as though you did not receive it?
What's the point of this scripture? We do not want to boast about ourselves but give all credit to Jehovah for the good that we can do.
Now, some people are proud about their good looks, their popularity, their wealth, their position, their physical strength, musical ability.
But remember, King David of Ancient Israel had all of those assets.
But throughout his entire life, he never became a boastful person. He remained humbled. Why?
In Psalm 113, 5 through 8, David gave all credit to Jehovah. He said, in his case, Jehovah stooped down and took this lowly one and raised him up to sit with nobles.
And on every occasion that he had, David would always say, praise Jehovah, boast about his holy name.
Well, we like David, should boast in Jehovah. The Apostle Paul encourages to do that at 1 Corinthians 131. The one who boasts, let him boast in Jehovah.
What does that mean? It means that we boast in the privilege of knowing the true God and of being able to be used by him to accomplish his will.
Now, another way that we can put away in proper boasting is to not talk about ourselves, but to acknowledge the good and the fine qualities that our fellow workers have.
Humble and modest people don't brag about what they do, but they turn their attention to their fellow workers and see how Jehovah is using them and blessing them in his service.
And when we do that, that creates a very peaceful, happy environment.
Well, may we continue to put away and keep away inappropriate boasting, self-praise. How?
By giving praise and thanks and honor to Jehovah for our accomplishments.
And by commending our fellow workers for all the good qualities they have and how Jehovah is using them in his service.
By doing so, we will preserve our precious possession of peace with Jehovah and with our brothers.
Brother Seth Hyatt, a helper to the service committee, will now present the next talk of this symposium, put away peace records and be.